Alice takes command line options.  It also has a config file it reads.
In the config file you will find command line options.  Many options
aren't easy to use and are intended only for the config file but
this is a nice general system.  In particular all alice key bindings are
set in the config file.   here are the options.

p=#
Sets the amount of memory to set aside for holder the user program.
Hopefully this won't be needed in time but for now we do.  Default
10,000.  

C=filename
Sets the name of the configuation file.  Default /config/alice.init
this default may change to something like /alice/pas.init or something
If students use this option to have their own config, they should stick
C=/alice/pas.init to read the general init at the end.  they chain in
this fashion.

s=#
Sets the size of the runtime stack, which is all the memory available
at runtime for variables, recursion and pointer areas allocated by new.
default 5,000 - some programs may need less or more.

l=#
Sets the size of the "location" stack which keeps track of the hierarchy
of program calling.  It needs to be about 1/5 the size of the runtime stack
and is currently at 1200

c[letter]=#

Sets a "colour" or text attribute for a particular pascal construct.
The letter is a lowercase letter indicating which feature, and the
number is the decimal representation of a word with attribute bits in the
icon style.  They can add numbers to or in bits and combine attributes.
default  a	- default colour for normal text
stub  b	- stubs show up this way - default underline
error  c	- errors show up this way - default reverse video
keywords  d	
variables  e
named constants  f
comments  g
char constant  h
integer constant  i
real constant  j
string constant  k
routine names  l	- the user's own routines
built in routines  m  - writeln and their ilk
field names  n
undefined symbols  o	- these are default reverse video
labels  p
one line edit q	 - these are normally underlined (this is the region edited)


We are playing around with these attributes considering things like italics
for stubs, bold for keywords, perhaps something special for comments like
dotted underline or italics.  You might want to help with this...
I'll get you the bit mappings shortly.  I do know that it is
1 for underline, 2 for bold and 128 for reverse video.  I will get you
what italics, and dotted underline are.  (there's also double width
but it really can't be used)  Roman is of course 0.

MACRO OPTION "m"

This option can be done in three forms:

m#=string	eg:	m7=controlg	define key by number

m'x'=string	eg:	m'W'=while 	defines key by character

m^x=string	eg	m^b=\cback\n	defines control key


These all define a key to be a given string.  All alice keys are now
defined in the main config file and can be changed there.  The string can
contain escape sequences.  The most important ones are \c for the command
key and \n for the newline.  This is what you need to define a macro.
We also have \u \d \l and \r for the 4 cursor keys.

Tell people that all alice key assignments, except the cursor keys, the
symbol complete key and the one-line editor delete char key are set in
the config file with m= options and can be changed.

+c

on the ibm only, sets up for use on a colour monitor.  This option may
be going away, since the user can tell dos what kind of monitor he has
with the mode command anyway.

+u

again ibm only, tells underline.  This will also go away
-----------------
Other installation guide notes:

Tell them alice takes a directory /alice in which it keeps the help files
and sample programs.  the installation script will worry about making this.

To install alice they should sign on as root at with the alice floppy in
the disk drive enter the command

2:/alice/install

Mention that alice needs lots of memory and that in general it is best if
they do not run the "gtask" command as Alice doesn't use it unless graphics
are being done.  Alice uses the window manager and will start it by itself.
They should either take the "gtask" out of the workstation init file
"/config/ws_sys.init" or they should issue the command "gtask_stop"
before running Alice.

If they want to take the speach admin or snap admin out of the init, that
will give more memory too.  Tell them cemcorp is reducing the amount of
memory they need.

--------------
Tell them how the help files work.  Point out the structure.  Mention that
if they want to give any extra help on any topic they can do so just by
editing the file, but they must take care that the line count and width at
the top are correct after they change the file.

Tell them how to add a cross reference to the popup menu at the bottom of
the help file.  Suggest they add lines like "special help from Mr. Jones"
or somesuch, and tell them how to put the name of their own helpfile there
and finally how to build that helpfile.
